Giorgi's WebAuthn C# post (#500)
oktadeveloper/okta-blog: _source/_posts/2020-12-18-how-to-use-webauthn-csharp-dotnet.md

---
layout: blog_post
title: How to Use WebAuthn in C#
author: giorgi-dalakishvili
by: contractor
communities: [.net]
description: "How to use WebAuthn for a .NET Core App with Windows Hello Authentication."
tags: [webauthn, dotnet, dotnetcore, csharp, aspnet, aspnetcore, dotnet5]
tweets:
- "Have you had a chance to use #WebAuthn for #csharp and #dotnetcore? Check out our tutorial! ->"
- "Get up to speed on #WebAuthn and Okta for #csharp"
- "Wondering how #WebAuthn for C# works? We've got you covered!"
image: blog/featured/okta-dotnet-books-quarter.jpg
type: conversion
---

> Nowadays, using a password for authentication is becoming less and less secure. Password attacks are becoming more sophisticated, and data breaches occur more frequently. [Have I Been Pwned](https://haveibeenpwned.com/), the website where you can check if your account has been compromised in a data breach, contains more than **10 billion** accounts and more than **600 million** passwords. With [62% of users reusing passwords](https://www.darkreading.com/informationweek-home/password-reuse-abounds-new-survey-shows/d/d-id/1331689), a successful attack on one of the websites gives the attacker access to your accounts on other sites as well. What's more, the Director of Identity Security at Microsoft warns that [long and complex passwords mostly don't help either](https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/t5/azure-active-directory-identity/your-pa-word-doesn-t-matter/ba-p/731984). Using multi-factor authentication is one of the easiest ways to secure your account but is still suspectable to some types of attacks.

Author: Really? I've had links in the first paragraph of some of my most popular posts. Good to revisit for 2021.

  options.TimestampDriftTolerance = Configuration.GetValue<int>("fido2:timestampDriftTolerance");
});
```

Now, you are ready to add passwordless authentication to the project. The first step is to enable users to register a new user account using passwordless authentication.

## Create User Accounts with Passwordless authentication

Open the `_Layout.cshtml` file in `Views\Shared` folder and add the following before the `<ul class="navbar-nav flex-grow-1">` element:

```html
<ul class="navbar-nav">
    @if (User.Identity.IsAuthenticated)
    {
        <li class="nav-item">
        <a class="nav-link text-dark" href="#">Hello, @User.Identity.Name</a>
        </li>
        <li class="nav-item">
        <a class="nav-link text-dark" asp-controller="Account" asp-action="Profile" id="profile-button">Profile</a>
        </li>
    }
    else
    {
        <li class="nav-item">
        <a class="nav-link text-dark" asp-controller="Account" asp-action="Register" id="register-button">Register</a>
        </li>
        <li class="nav-item">
        <a class="nav-link text-dark" asp-controller="Account" asp-action="SignIn" id="login-button">Sign In</a>
        </li>
    }

> </ul>

Reviewer: It seems like the lines that start with `<a>` should be indented 2 spaces.

```

> Next, add `AccountController.cs` file in the `Controllers` folder, add `RegisterModel.cs` in the `Models` folder, and add `Register.cshtml` in the `Views\Account` folder:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, add a `AccountController.cs` file in the `Controllers` folder, add `RegisterModel.cs` in the `Models` folder, and add `Register.cshtml` in the `Views\Account` folder:
```

            </div>
            <div class="form-group">
                <label asp-for="FirstName"></label>
                <input asp-for="FirstName" class="form-control" name="firstName" />
                <span asp-validation-for="FirstName" class="text-danger"></span>
            </div>
            <div class="form-group">
                <label asp-for="LastName"></label>
                <input asp-for="LastName" class="form-control" name="lastName" />
                <span asp-validation-for="LastName" class="text-danger"></span>
            </div>
            <button type="submit" class="btn btn-primary" id="register">Register</button>
        </form>
    </div>
</div>

@section Scripts {
    <partial name="_ValidationScriptsPartial" />
    <script src="~/js/helpers.js"></script>
    <script src="~/js/passwordless.register.js"></script>
}
```

```cs
public class RegisterModel
{
  [Required]
  [EmailAddress]
  [Display(Name = "Email")]
  public string Email { get; set; }

  [Required]
  [Display(Name = "First Name")]
  public string FirstName { get; set; }

  [Required]
  [Display(Name = "Last Name")]
  public string LastName { get; set; }
}
```

> To create a new credential when the user registers, you need to call [`navigator.credentials.create`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/CredentialsContainer/create) Javascript method. The create method accepts a `PublicKeyCredentialCreationOptions` parameter with several required and optional fields that specify options for the requested credentials.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create a new credential when the user registers, you need to call [`navigator.credentials.create`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/CredentialsContainer/create) JavaScript method. The `create()` method accepts a `PublicKeyCredentialCreationOptions` parameter with several required and optional fields that specify options for the requested credentials.
```

    }
}

async function fetchMakeCredentialOptions(formData) {
let response = await fetch('/Account/CredentialOptions', {
    method: 'POST',
    body: JSON.stringify(formData),
    headers: {
    'Accept': 'application/json',
    'Content-Type': 'application/json'
    }
  });

  let data = await response.json();

  return data;
}

// This should be used to verify the auth data with the server
async function registerNewCredential(newCredential) {

    let attestationObject = new Uint8Array(newCredential.response.attestationObject);
    let clientDataJSON = new Uint8Array(newCredential.response.clientDataJSON);
    let rawId = new Uint8Array(newCredential.rawId);

    const data = {
        id: newCredential.id,
        rawId: coerceToBase64Url(rawId),
        type: newCredential.type,
        extensions: newCredential.getClientExtensionResults(),
        response: {
        AttestationObject: coerceToBase64Url(attestationObject),
        clientDataJson: coerceToBase64Url(clientDataJSON)
        }
    };

    let response;
    try {
            response = await registerCredentialWithServer(data);
        } catch (e) 
        {
            alert(e);
            return;
        }

>   console.log("Credential Object", response);

Reviewer: I would remove this line, or indent it so it lines up as expected.

    return data;
}
```

Let's go through the code and break down what it does. First, I register an event handler for the `sign-up` form. In the event handler, I call the `/Account/CredentialOptions` endpoint with the user data and use the resulting options to call the `navigator.credentials.create` method. After that, I send the generated credentials to the server by calling the `/Account/SaveCredentials` endpoint. It's that simple.

The `SaveCredentials` endpoint doesn't exist yet, but before I create that method, I will configure Okta as I will store user data and their credentials in Okta.

## Store User and User's Public Key in Okta

This tutorial will use Okta to store users and the public key of their credentials. Okta supports user authentication, multi-factor authentication, social authentication, as well as all OpenID Connect flows out of the box—it can take care of all the scenarios you might ever need.

To get started, log in to your [Okta Developer account](https://developer.okta.com/) via the URL in the sign-up email to access your org's portal dashboard. Once you log in, make sure to note your Org URL from the upper right corner of the screen:

> {% img blog/webauthn-csharp/image6.png alt:"" width:"800" %}{: .center-image }

Reviewer: This image doesn't seem like it should be here.

> Alternatively, you can install [Okta CLI](https://cli.okta.com/) and login to your Okta account with the `okta login` command or sign up for a new account with the `okta start` command if you don't already have an Okta account.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Alternatively, you can install the [Okta CLI](https://cli.okta.com/) and log in to your Okta account with the `okta login` command. You can also sign up for a new account with the `okta start` command if you don't already have an Okta account.
```

> Now, I will create a custom field for storing the user's public key. Go to **Users** in the menu, click **Profile Editor**, and click the **Profile** button next to the default Okta profile. Click **Add Attribute**, fill the `Add Attribute` form and click **Save**:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, create a custom field for storing the user's public key. Go to **Users** in the menu, click **Profile Editor**, and click the **Profile** button next to the default Okta profile. Click **Add Attribute**, fill the `Add Attribute` form and click **Save**:
```

> {% img blog/webauthn-csharp/image8.png alt:"" width:"800" %}{: .center-image }

Reviewer: Add alt value

Do the same to add another attribute called `CredentialId`.

Next, go to **API** in the menu, click **Tokens**, and click the **Create Token** button. Enter the token name (I will use *OktaWebAuthn*) and click the **Create Token** button. Make sure you copy the token because you won't be able to view it again:

> {% img blog/webauthn-csharp/image9.png alt:"" width:"800" %}{: .center-image }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{% img blog/webauthn-csharp/image9.png alt:"" width:"512" %}{: .center-image }
```
Add alt value. You also might want to make a new screenshot to replace this image. It's pretty grainy.

> Switch to Visual Studio, open the `appsettings.json` again and add a section for Okta:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Switch to Visual Studio, open the `appsettings.json` again, and add a section for Okta:
```

        var storedCredential = new StoredCredential{
            Descriptor = new PublicKeyCredentialDescriptor(fidoCredentials.Result.CredentialId),
            PublicKey = fidoCredentials.Result.PublicKey,
            UserHandle = fidoCredentials.Result.User.Id,
            SignatureCounter = fidoCredentials.Result.Counter,
            CredType = fidoCredentials.Result.CredType,
            RegDate = DateTime.Now,
            AaGuid = fidoCredentials.Result.Aaguid
        };

        var result = await oktaClient.Users.CreateUserAsync(new CreateUserWithoutCredentialsOptions
        {
            Profile = new UserProfile
            {
                Login = options.User.Name,
                Email = options.User.Name,
                DisplayName = options.User.DisplayName,
                ["CredentialId"] = Convert.ToBase64String(fidoCredentials.Result.CredentialId),
                ["PasswordlessPublicKey"] = JsonConvert.SerializeObject(storedCredential)
            }
        });

        return Json(fidoCredentials);
    }
    catch (Exception e)
    {
        return Json(new Fido2.CredentialMakeResult { Status = "error", ErrorMessage = e.Message });
    }

> }

Reviewer: Formatting (indent) is inconsistent. Above, there are 2-space indents for CS files. I try to be consistent by file type.

```

> The `SaveCredentials` method accepts the public key object created by the authenticator, turns it into a credentials object for storing, and saves the user together with the credentials in Okta.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `SaveCredentials()` method accepts the public key object created by the authenticator, turns it into a credentials object for storing, and saves the user together with the credentials in Okta.
```

Now let's see the app in action! Click F5 or use `dotnet run` to launch the app and click the **Register** menu item. Enter your email, personal details, and click the **Register** button. You should see a screen similar to this one:

> {% img blog/webauthn-csharp/image10.png alt:"" width:"800" %}{: .center-image }

Reviewer: Add alt value.

Scan your finger on the reader, and a new user will be saved in Okta with the public key corresponding to your passwordless credentials.

You can now register a user so let's move on to signing in to passwordless accounts.

## Authentication with WebAuthn

> First, I will enable authentication using cookies in the project. Add the following in `ConfigureServices` method in `Startup` class:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, enable authentication using cookies in the project. Add the following in `ConfigureServices` method in `Startup` class:
```

```cs
services.AddAuthentication("Cookie").AddCookie("Cookie");
```

Also in the `Configure` method:

```cs
app.UseAuthentication();
```

> Next, add `SignIn` method to the `AccountController`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, add a `SignIn()` method to the `AccountController`:
```

```cs
public ActionResult SignIn()
{
  return View();
}
```

Finally, add a `SignIn.cshtml` in `Views\Account`:

```html
@{
    ViewData["Title"] = "Sign In";
}

<h1>@ViewData["Title"]</h1>

<div class="row">
  <div class="col-md-4">
    <form method="post" id="signin-form">
    <h4>Sign in without password</h4>
    <hr />
    <div class="form-group">
        <label for="email">Email</label>
        <input id="email" class="form-control" name="email" />

>     </div>

Reviewer: indent 2 spaces instead of 4.

    <button type="submit" class="btn btn-primary" id="register">Sign In</button>
    </form>
  </div>
</div>

@section Scripts {
    <script src="~/js/helpers.js"></script>
    <script src="~/js/passwordless.login.js"></script>
}
```

Now, you are ready to add passwordless authentication. Login flow with passwordless authentication is similar to the registration flow. First, you need to initiate authentication for the user that wants to log in, and then use WebAuthn to facilitate the authentication process using the [navigator.credentials.get](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/CredentialsContainer/get) method.

> To create options for `navigator.credentials.get`, I will add a method in `AccountController` that will accept the user that initiated login and return corresponding options:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create options for `navigator.credentials.get`, add a method in `AccountController` that will accept the user that initiated login and return corresponding options:
```

```cs
[HttpPost]
public async Task<ActionResult> SignInOptions([FromForm] string username)
{
    try
    {
        var user = await oktaClient.Users.GetUserAsync(username);

        if (user == null)
        throw new ArgumentException("Username was not registered");

        var credential = JsonConvert.DeserializeObject<StoredCredential>(user.Profile["PasswordlessPublicKey"].ToString());

        var options = fido2.GetAssertionOptions(new List<PublicKeyCredentialDescriptor> { credential.Descriptor },
                                                UserVerificationRequirement.Discouraged);

        HttpContext.Session.SetString("fido2.assertionOptions", options.ToJson());

        return Json(options);
    }

    catch (Exception e)
    {
        return Json(new AssertionOptions { Status = "error", ErrorMessage = e.Message });
    }
}
```

> The `SignInOptions` method fetches the user that is trying to sign in from Okta, creates options with the credentials that the user is allowed to use, and returns them as JSON to the caller.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `SignInOptions()` method fetches the user that is trying to sign in from Okta, creates options with the credentials that the user is allowed to use, and returns them as JSON to the caller.
```

> Next, add the javascript code that will get the options and prompt the user for authentication. Create a new file `passwordless.login.js` in `wwwroot\js` and paste the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, add the JavaScript code that will get the options and prompt the user for authentication. Create a new `passwordless.login.js` file in `wwwroot\js` and paste the following:
```

        var credential = JsonConvert.DeserializeObject<StoredCredential>(user.Profile["PasswordlessPublicKey"].ToString());

        var result = await fido2.MakeAssertionAsync(clientResponse, options, credential.PublicKey, credential.SignatureCounter,
                                                    args => Task.FromResult(credential.UserHandle.SequenceEqual(args.UserHandle)));

        await UpdateCounter(user, credential, result.Counter);

        var claims = new List<Claim>
        {
        new Claim(ClaimTypes.Name, user.Profile.Email)
        };

        var claimsIdentity = new ClaimsIdentity(claims, CookieAuthenticationDefaults.AuthenticationScheme);

        await HttpContext.SignInAsync(CookieAuthenticationDefaults.AuthenticationScheme, new ClaimsPrincipal(claimsIdentity));

        return Json(result);
    }
    catch (Exception e)
    {
        return Json(new AssertionVerificationResult { Status = "error", ErrorMessage = e.Message });
    }
}
```

Run the project again, click the **Sign In** in the menu, enter the email you signed up with, and click the **Sign In** button. You will see a prompt like this:

> {% img blog/webauthn-csharp/image11.png alt:"" width:"800" %}{: .center-image }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{% img blog/webauthn-csharp/image11.png alt:"" width:"570" %}{: .center-image }
```
Add alt value.

> Swipe your finger, and you will be signed in and redirected to the profile page. To show the current user profile data, I will use Okta .NET SDK to get the current user details and display them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Swipe your finger, and you will be signed in and redirected to the profile page. To show the current user profile data, you can use the Okta .NET SDK to get the current user details and display them.
```

> Add a `Profile` method with the following code:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add a `Profile()` method with the following code:
```

```html
@model Okta.Sdk.IUser

@{
  ViewData["Title"] = "User Profile";
}

<h1>User Profile</h1>

<div>
    <dl class="row">
    <dt class = "col-sm-2">
        @Html.DisplayNameFor(model => model.Profile.FirstName)
    </dt>
    <dd class = "col-sm-10">
        @Html.DisplayFor(model => model.Profile.FirstName)
    </dd>
    <dt class = "col-sm-2">
        @Html.DisplayNameFor(model => model.Profile.LastName)
    </dt>
    <dd class = "col-sm-10">
        @Html.DisplayFor(model => model.Profile.LastName)
    </dd>
    <dt class = "col-sm-2">
        @Html.DisplayNameFor(model => model.Profile.Email)
    </dt>
    <dd class = "col-sm-10">
        @Html.DisplayFor(model => model.Profile.Email)
    </dd>
    </dl>
</div>
<div>
    <a asp-action="EditProfile">Edit Profile</a>
</div>
```

The view renders profile details such as the user's first name and last name, email, city, and country code.

Rerun the app, click the **Profile** button, and you will see the details of the currently logged in user.

That's it! You can register and sign with passwordless authentication and view the details of the current user.

> In this tutorial, we learned how to use WebAuthn in ASP.NET Core and Okta to make passwordless authentication more secure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this tutorial, you learned how to use WebAuthn in ASP.NET Core and Okta to make passwordless authentication more secure.
```

> Give passwordless authentication a try, get the [full source code of the project from GitHub](https://github.com/oktadeveloper/OktaWebAuthn) and let us know what you think in the comments below.

Reviewer: We try to prefix our blog post repos with "okta" and suffix them with "example". Also, it's a good idea (for SEO) to include the keywords in the repo name. I'd recommend renaming this repo to "okta-dotnet-webauthn-example". Please update the README to include instructions so the user can clone, configure for Okta, and run.
